Weak topology is Hemicompact more than σ-compact (#1082)
pi-base/data: spaces/S000021/properties/P000111.md

---
space: S000021
property: P000111
value: true
refs:
- doi: 10.1007/978-93-86279-42-2
  name: Functional Analysis
---
By the Banach-Alaoglu theorem (see Theorem 5.2.1 of
{{doi:10.1007/978-93-86279-42-2}}), the closed unit ball (with respect
to the inner product of $H$) is compact in the weak-* topology, which
on a Hilbert space is equivalent to the weak topology.  Since $H$ is a
topological vector space, the same is true for every closed ball.

Let $K_n$ be the closed ball centered at origin with radius $n$, then $K_n$ is compact and $H = \bigcup_{n \in \omega} K_n$.

> Suppose $K$ is any (weakly) compact subset of $H$. From the fact that the continuous image of a compact set is compact, we know that $K$ is pointwise bounded, namely $\sup_{y \in K} \left| \left< x, y \right> \right| < + \infty$ for any $x \in H$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose $K$ is any (weakly) compact subset of $H$. From the fact that the continuous image of a compact set is compact, we know that $K$ is bounded in the weak topology, that is, $\sup_{y \in K} \left| \left< x, y \right> \right| < + \infty$ for any $x \in H$.
```

> Therefore, $K$ is bounded (in strong topology) by [Uniform Boundedness Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_boundedness_principle), thus contained in some $K_n$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, $K$ is bounded in norm by [Uniform Boundedness Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_boundedness_principle), thus contained in some $K_n$.
```
